Title: Tweet Analysis, Ambiguity,
and Storytelling.
A cursor appears on screen and adds text
to the title that reads: A Dialog.
Below the title appears the text:
Daniel Anderson iamdan@unc.edu.
The cursor adds @iamdan.
The cursor highlights and then deletes
all of the text on the title screen.
Video footage of bridges plays
in the top fifth of the screen.
An image of Donald Trump
flashes briefly on screen.
A cursor types text as it is read aloud.
On screen, web articles discussing
the 2016 US election appear.
Text from an article is highlighted:
It was the day that data died.
they say what you want them to say.
A cursor types the text spoken by the
computer-generated voice.
A quote from Peggy Noonan appears:
"In America now only normal people
can see the obvious. Everyone else
is lost in a data-filled fog."
Several layers of video and
images appear on the screen,
including video footage of a man looking
out of a train window facing a bridge.
The imagery is layered with articles
about the election, a screenshot of
a Google Maps view of Portland, Oregon,
and footage of bicycles on bridges.
A web page with a class assignment called
"Curating and Analyzing Tweets" appears.
A browser with an online article appears
titled: Baby We Were Born to Tweet. . . .
Footage of woman running on a bridge is
layered over opaque map views of Portland.
A web page titled TAGS appears. The cursor
clicks a button labeled Make a copy.
A Google spreadsheet opens. At the top,
text reads TAGS v6.1.
The cursor scrolls through the TAGS
page, then clicks a tab labeled Archive.
A spreadsheet rows and columns
of tweets and related data.
A web site appears showing
sentiment analysis figures
for the hashtag, #posttruth.
A cursor types as the computer-generated
voice speaks.
A Photo application window appears.
The cursor clicks a button labeled
Review for Import. The screen shifts
to the sentiment analysis web page.
Tweets with the hashtag #posttruth
are scrolled through.
As the computer-generated voice speaks,
a cursor types: What is that?
The screen shifts back
to #posttruth tweets.
As the computer-generated voice speaks,
a cursor types the text on screen.
Video of a train passing under a bridge
faintly appears on screen, opaque
beneath a spreadsheet with tweets
and interpretive data.
As the computer-generated voice speaks,
a cursor types the text.
A spreadsheet with tweets and interpretive
data fills the screen.
The cursor clicks a button labeled Explore
and a palette with visualizations appears.
A pie chart in a spreadsheet shows the
results of human-generated coding
for positive and negative sentiment, with
positive sentiment in yellow (5.3%),
neutral sentiment in red (32.7%) and
negative sentiment in blue (62%).
As the computer-generated voice speaks,
a cursor types.
Opaque trains roll beneath the imagery.
A network visualization appears on screen
A bar graph showing hashtag counts, and
then a graph showing top tweeters appear.
An assignment titled "Digital Research
Presentation" appears on screen.
Another spreadsheet appears. It contains
data
for the hashtags #notmypresident
and #blacklivesmatter.
A cursor moves over columns in the
spreadsheet as the voice speaks.
Opaque bridge imagery appears beneath
the spreadsheet.
The screen slides to black, and then shows
pie charts. One chart shows tweets read as
"call to action" (yes 17%, no 83%);
another chart shows "temporal focus"
(past 10.2%, future 9.5%, present 80.3%).
Beneath chart imagery, an opaque bridge
shows.
A train enters the opaque frame,
rolling over the bridge.
A student video appears, showing micro
organisms, then a grid of human eyes.
Imagery shifts in the student video:
a scan of a taxonomy table;
the faces of mannequins; young children;
bullets; men with guns.
A montage of footage showing
people from around the world appears.
Text appears on screen: Human
"Computer"
"Category"
Aerial footage shows two bridges over a
river. Text appears: Burnside Bridge-1926.
The scene moves down the river as
the camera flies over the bridges.
The footage pulls back from a bridge
with traffic,
showing the river and more bridges
in the distance.
The scene cuts to a two-story bridge with
a light rail train crossing on the top.
Text appears: Steel Bridge-1912.
The scene cuts to a view above the
steel bridge.
PC and Mac characters from Apple's
Get a Mac campaign appear, opaque
beneath the aerial bridge imagery
along with source code showing a poem.
Steel bridge girders fill the screen,
opaque above aerial bridge footage.
The view zooms in to rivets on the girders
blended with aerial footage.
As the computer-generated voice speaks,
a cusor types the text.
The girders and aerial bridge footage
blend on screen.
The steel bridge girders fade out, leaving
aerial footage approaching a steel bridge.
As the view moves over the bridge, two
light rails trains cross its surface.
The screen fades to white.